the chief of the Palestinian militant
group Hamas says it's close to a
temporary truce with Israel that would
allow for the exchange of Israeli
hostages for Hamas prisoners US
President Joe Biden also said he
believes a hostage deal is near even as
an agreement appeared to be taking shape
relatives of some hostages were angered
by security minister itamar Ben's call
for the death penalty for Hamas
operatives currently in Israeli custody
at meeting in the knesset relative said
plans to revive Israel's dormant capital
punishment laws for Palestinian
prisoners of War would endanger their
own loved ones lives Israel detained a
number of suspected Hamas Fighters after
the October 7th Terror
attacks let's get the latest with DW
correspondent Rebecca rtis in Jerusalem
Rebecca what's the latest you're hearing
about those hostage
negotiations well gal this it certainly
feels like the closest we've come to a
deal being agreed of course there have
been negotiations ongoing pretty much
since the beginning since October let's
say 8th even um where these negotiations
have been like going up and down on and
off they were getting pretty close we
were hearing prior to Israel's uh ground
offensive then that completely uh
stalled the talks and now we're hearing
more and more positive noises coming out
of the negotiations we heard over the
weekend from qatar's prime minister
Alani now he of course or the qaris at
least negotiators playing a huge role in
these hostage negotiations uh we heard
very positive words from him saying that
that a deal was Clos then of course we
heard contradictory remarks from Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying
a deal was nowhere near being finalized
uh he's under a lot of pressure to
remain firm of course their one of their
main objectives or the main objective
you might say uh is to eradicate Hamas
so he's needing to maintain a public
firmness on that line while at the same
time trying to ensure that these
hostages are released but this is
certainly the closest we have now heard
we're hearing from the White House and
as you reporting also from is one of the
Hamas leaders saying that a deal is
imminent the deal we're talking about is
somewhere between 50 and 100 hostages to
be released predominantly women and
children um all civilians none of the
military captives uh in exchange for
some prisoners from the Palestinian side
in Israeli prisons women and children up
to about 300 as well as a 3 to 5 day
ceasefire to allow for humanitarian Aid
to be L into the Gaza Strip now that has
been a major sticking point uh Israel
worried that it will give Hamas a chance
to rearm and
recoordination in the next hours if not
days uh Rebecca it appears from what
we've seen earlier that relations
between the uh um relatives of the
hostages and the government government
have become rather tense is that
correct well we saw yesterday and you
were reporting it there uh in the leadin
that a very tense session in the knesset
as members of the far right or far far
part of the far right Coalition this
odds Yehuda party Jewish power they are
seen as an extremist party they are
trying to reintroduce the death penalty
for Hamas militants in prisons here or
that were that are um held captive here
and that is something that the families
or many of the families of the hostages
say is counterproductive to getting
their loved ones out of Gaza alive they
think it will anger Hamas that it will
give them impetus to perhaps uh do harm
to their family members in Gaza so we
saw a very heated uh exchange very
emotional very passionate pleas from the
families to these members who are
championing this bill now I'll I'll also
say that the bill doesn't have consensus
in the Coalition it doesn't have uh huge
a huge support so it may not go through
but the families uh think that even just
talking about it is going to jeopardize
the the situation inside Gaza for their
family members uh so we saw you as I
said very heated exchanges and even the
the members of UDA the members of that
far far right party calling the the
families of the hostages saying that
they are actually doing hamas's work for
them so some very personal exchanges
happening their families very worried
that the government just isn't doing
enough or isn't taking the right action
to ensure that their their family
members are freed thews Rebecca R is
there reporting from Jerusalem thank you
Rebecca nearly 30 premature babies
evacuated from gaza's alifa hospital
have arrived in Egypt for urgent medical
care Medics brought the babies into
Egypt via the Rafa border crossing
that's the only way out of Gaza that
Israel does not
control an urgent
evacuation
premature babies bundled into ambulances
to get them out of
Gaza the World Health Organization says
all of them are fighting serious
infections the babies had been trapped
at gaza's largest hospital for days
several others died after incubators at
alifa stopped working amid power
outages United Nations teams helped
coordinate the evacuation working with
Israeli soldiers to get the tiny
patients out of the hospital which
Israel claims is home to a Hamas Command
Center the babies were brought South
some reunited with their
mothers I have twin daughters I did not
know about their condition today I saw
them for the first time since I gave
birth to them thank God I was reassured
that they were fine I was always
communicating with sha and they told me
you can come and take them because their
health has improved but I could not
reach
them waiting ambulances then whisked
them across the rougher Crossing to
Egypt taking parents where
possible they are innocent children
premature babies toddlers I left my
three children in Gaza I didn't even get
a chance to hug them because I couldn't
leave my daughter in this state
something might happen happened to them
they could be bombed my message to the
world is enough these are innocent
children we are just protecting our
country our country
Palestine the children's agency UNICEF
says it's working with Egyptian
authorities to find out the
circumstances of each evacuated baby
including those whose relatives are not
with them doctors say they have a long
road to recovery ahead with many of them
critically
ill let's bring in Toby frier he speaks
for the United Nations International
children's emergency fund uh UNICEF he
joins us from the Jordanian Capital Aman
now uh first of all how are the babies
and where are they
currently yeah so the babies are
currently in a stable condition um
they're getting the care thankfully that
they urgently needed and we have the
most of the babies are now in Egypt uh
getting more Specialized Care uh as we
know the hospitals inside the Gaza Strip
are massively overwhelmed alifa hospital
was could not look after the babies
anymore could not look after anyone it's
particularly uh almost non completely
non-operational and that's why the
health authorities called on UNICEF un
uh and others to to help that
evacuation now there were also a report
that some other babies died in alifa
what do you know about
that yeah that's right our understanding
is that reportedly initially there were
uh 39 premature babies that needed
Urgent Care uh sadly by the time the
operation happened and that we were able
to coordinate and get to the hospital
there were 31 babies two had had died
within 24 hours tragically um which goes
to show why the operation was so urgent
and it's not even we hope those 31 of
course that we can save their lives it's
tragic that we couldn't get there
earlier um and it's tragic that the
hospital has become this sort of
centerpiece almost of of of the conflict
um and and it's not just alifer it's
other hospitals as well but right now
they're getting the best care they can
you know thanks to multiple partners
thanks to to the Egyptian authorities as
well now gaza's Indonesian hospital it's
the last one still operating in the
north of the strip what are you hearing
from your colleagues on the ground
there yeah that's right so we heard um
um you know horrifically that yesterday
according to the World Health
Organization as well there was reports
of this uh you know attack in theal
hospital that hit the hospital um the
conditions even before have been
deteriorating day by day at that
hospital as well um so the northern part
of the Gaza Strip the Health Care system
is is all but ended um which is why it's
a massive concern we have two out of
three hospitals across the Gaza Strip
not operating due to damage or lack of
fuel and we have children in densely
packed shelters who are increasingly at
risk of potential disease outbreaks
particularly as as winter comes and the
Health Care system is is not there to to
support them or treat them if they need
urgent care now the World Health
Organization has warned about the threat
of disease spreading in Gaza what
efforts are underway to uh uh counter
that that's right so we have 1.7 million
people displaced inside Gaza Strip
around half those around 800,000 are
children and they're living many are
living in un schools in hospital grounds
in public facilities uh densely packed
together you know families in classrooms
the conditions are horrific you have
very little access to Safe Water about 3
lers per person per day the emergency
threshold that we try to reach is 15
liters uh you have sanitary conditions
which are getting worse one toilet for
hundreds of people and of course now
with rains you have the risk of waterbor
diseases you have children who have
missed routine childhood immunizations
who are now more at risk of preventable
but deadly diseases so this is a this is
a huge that's why it's absolutely urgent
that we can try and improve those
conditions in those shelters
particularly but also elsewhere to
reduce the risk of any Mass disease
outbreak thank you very much Toby frer
there from
UNICEF Germany's foreign minister
analina Bok has said a ceasefire in the
Middle East would prevent Israel from
defending itself speaking to DW Bok
defended Germany's refusal to back a
ceasefire in Gaza instead Berlin says it
backs humanitarian pauses that would
allow for Aid to get into Gaza she also
hit out at criticism of Germany's
support for Israel calling it extremely
disturbing Germany's foreign minister
has a message for the Arab world taking
a break from International diplomacy an
Elena bebok joined DW's Arabic show
Jaffer talk for an in-depth interview on
the war in the Middle
East first on the agenda why Germany has
so far refused to back a ceasefire in
Gaza that would mean Israel would no
longer be able to defend itself amid the
ongoing barrage of missiles every day
Hamas makes clear that it wants to wipe
Israel off the map that means they want
to annihilate Israel and in such a
situation Israel has to protect its
population at the same time I am we are
working with our International partners
with the Americans but also with many
Arab countries to do everything possible
to ensure the people in Gaza have safe
places where they won't be killed where
they can access clean drinking water and
medication in visits over the past month
German officials have repeatedly
emphasized their support for Israel
saying German history means it has a
unique responsibility to the country but
critics in the Arab world say Germany's
guilt means it's afraid to call out
potential war
crimes I very irritated by those people
because to me it sounds like the
complete relativization of genocide the
worst crime this world has ever
seen my country the Nazi regime in
Germany is responsible for the deaths of
6 million Jewish men and women the
deaths of hundreds of thousands of
Europeans in Europe we have committed
ourselves as an International Community
and that's what international law is
built on that's the lesson we learned
from the horrors of World War
II
turning to the future of the conflict
bebok said it was likely that a
peacekeeping presence of sorts would be
needed to protect civilians in the long
term but she would not be drawn on where
those troops would come
from in order to ensure security we need
International responsibility we've
learned this from the terrible Wars in
Europe's Western Balkans there too the
International Community assumed a
responsibility to protect it was also
situation where the worst crimes had
been committed and actors in the region
had simply lost all trust I see the same
thing
there the question now is which
countries can command the trust of both
the Palestinian and Israeli
people now DW political correspondent
Matthew Moore joins me uh Matthew
Germany has been criticized for not
supporting a ceasefire how did the
foreign minister justify this position
that's right Gad put simply analina
bearok says Hamas cannot be trusted to
hold up its end of a ceasefire at one
point she threw up her hands and said
it's not simply a case of politicians
saying stop this so instead Germany is
working on humanitarian pauses that
allow for Aid to reach those people in
Gaza who are desperately in need and
also for hostages to be released this
could be she said hours or even days and
I was struck though throughout the
interview she repeatedly sought to
express her Sympathy for the innocent
victims on both sides of this conflict
she said the suffering of Palestinians
kept her awake at night as much as the
plight of Israeli mothers whose children
were taken or kidnapped by terrorists on
October 7th but the bottom line Gard is
Germany calling for pauses rather than a
fol ceas fire now Bach has also
responded in that interview to criticism
from the Middle East that Germany is
turning a blind eye to the suffering of
Palestinian civilians in Gaza because of
Germany's responsibility towards Israel
after the Holocaust what did you make of
her reaction
there well this is a criticism that
we've heard over and over in the past
month last week the Turkish president
Reb T Eran was in town in Berlin and he
said because of the Holocaust Germany
was really not able not free to tell the
truth implying that Germany is ignoring
human rights abuses bearok pushed back
really hard against this throughout the
interview and this was where she became
most animated and most impct passioned
saying that criticizing Germany for its
past is relativizing the crimes of the
Holocaust and she said she was extremely
disturbed by the accusation accusation
she said for her there was no
contradiction between standing up for
Israel's right to exist and defending
human
rights now why did the German foreign
minister do this interview
now yeah jaffar talk is a show that has
real clout in the Arab region and on
social media so this was clearly an
attempt to engage with the arabic
speaking audiences and to explain
Germany's position on this conflict I
have to say this was the first time I
think I've seen dur since this conflict
has reignited where I've seen a senior
German politician scrutinized in this
way this was a 36 minute interview the
full version of which you can watch
online but normally interviews like this
might last 10 to 15 minutes at most and
bearok knew that this would be a
challenging interview and there was
really no attempt to backd if anything
she was defiant setting out Germany's
position on a ceasefire on the lessons
of the Holocaust but also stressing that
she is equally concerned about the
suffering of Palestinians as well as
Israelis in the
region our political correspondent
Matthew more there thank you very much
Matthew